Azure is offering:

IAAS
PAAS = Platform as a service, we are just responsible for code and data the rest is taken care by MS

About 54 Azure Regions

Compute = Virtual Machine 

MARKET PLACE
------------

Here we will have different options for creating our resources:

    For computing:
        When creating a VM is asking if Classic or Resource Manager, it  is just the way for creating the VM, we normally use Resource Manager. Classic will be deprecated soon enough. For "images" we  have the Market Place where we have different versions of different OS. From Ms to Cannonical, passing by other SW companies.

    For Network:

        Virtual NEtwork: it's clear I guess.
        Express Route: For creating P2P connection between your ISP and Ms.(Private fast connections)
        Traffic Manager: Traffic Load balancer running on the global level
        
        * There are many other to explore, even software Firewalls etc.

    For Storage:
        Data Lake storage:
        CosmoDB

    For WebMobile:

    For Database:

    For Data + Analytics

    For  AI + Cognitive Service

    For IoT:

    For Enterpise Integration:

    For Security + Identity:

    Developer Tools:

    Monitoring & Management




		
VIRTUAL MACHINES:
-----------------

    Resources Groups:
        When creating a VM, it's asking for Resources Group, and as the name indicates it's just a group of various resources. So we can have VM, storage, Database, Virtual NEtwork, security rules...  and then for example we can track the resources for different projects.

    Availability set:
        Indicating which servers should be physically separated, in order to prevent problems in case of some disaster. So if we get a group of servers using the same Availability set, M$ will try to put them in different physical servers for Disaster recovery problems.

    Managed Disks:
        For un-managed disks, we have to create the storage account, are we are going to be charged for that. In the opposite, using the Managed disks, M$ will have the storage in their Storage account and they  are going to take care about the maintain and then managing it. In managed disks  you paid by usage.

    Virtual Network: 
        By default, when creating a virtual machine, it is going to create a new virtual network

    Network Security Group:
        Basically the rules for incoming and outgoing traffic.

    Auto-shutdown:

    Boot Diagnostic and Diagnostics: 
        we get reports about the state of the servers, and it will go into storage account.

    Download template and parameters:
        This is at the end of the creation of the VM, actually it's going to be a JSON file with the whole configuration of the VM


STORAGE:
--------

* By default the contents of the account are private unless we specify the opposite.
* Eventhough the Storage accounts are coming with a public url xxxxxx.core.windows.net and it can be accessible.
* We are charged by Gb of data

    Account Kind:
        Blob: only allow blob, it is the only one which it's available in internet and for accessing it, it's not necessary any key. Blobs are f
        Storage: We are charged by GB of DATA. The Data is stored in very frequently accessing.
        Storage V2: it's needed to have authorization to see the contents, we are also charged by GB of DATA but it's a bit lower than V1, but there is an increased charged by bytes IN / bytes OUT (R and W), so if we do not have to access this data much frequently so this is the one to use.

    Performance:
        Standard: maybe magnetic HD, so a bit slower
        Premium: SSD so a bit more expensive than standard.

    Replication:

        - For Storage V2:
            Locally-Redundant storage (LRS): They will keep 3 copies of your data in this option
            Geo-Redundant storage (GRS): It's WorldWide and it keeps 6 copies, 3 in one local region and 3 another in other region
            ReadAcess geographic (RA-GRS): Just read access

        - For Storage V1:
             * We have the same as V2 plus...
             Zone-Redundant storage(ZRS): the same but in terms of zone


    Access Tier:

        Hot: The data is available for you. For regular use.
        Cool: It's cheaper but whenever you saved your data, and then you will needs to retrieve this data they will charge for it. Which is great for backup. You have something like 30 days commitments that you won't access your data. If you access before you will pay some penalty.

    Secure Transfer required: enforce sslhttps
    

* Once the Storage account is created you have the following SERVICES:

    Blobs: Where you can store binaries, as media files images or whatever,
        * Here we can create containers, and we can allow to R/W as we want. And we can upload files to the container, with the web admin.

    Files: Actually is like a SMB3.0 fileserver

    Tables: Data storage, similar to row/columns. Tabular format

    Queues: Type first come first serve kind of...  Messages

    

    

        




    
           

        
        
		
		
